Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans :Programming language is a formal language created specifically to create and modify programs.
     They provide instructions to the computer to perform actions.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans :Java Development Kit is composed of
     JVM: Java Virtual Machine is a software that converts a program in Java bytecodes into machine language and executes it.
     Compiler: A software that converts java language into machine language.
     Debugger: adds a debug point at a selected breakpoint and steps through code line by line.

What is IDE?
Ans :Integrated Development Environment: set of programming tools for writing application.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans: IntelliJ, eclipse, netbeans, bluej, Jdeveloper

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans: Source Code: type the program in teh text-editor
     Compiling: use javac to compile/generate bytecodes in a .class file
     Executing: jvm will execute the bytecodes and output in machine code (0 and 1)

what is class?
Ans: class is a template where codeblocks can be written

What is object?
Ans: object is an instance of a class, we can use it call not static methods and variables

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans: the main method.

Why main is static?
Ans: because main in the entry point for java. The compiler is able to call it without creating object because it's static.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans: The Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans: Path is use to specify the set of directories which contains programs and
     classpath variable is used to specify location of the classes and packages

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans: Interface allows us to define functionality, but not implement it
     Abstract class allows us to create functionality the subclasses can implement or override

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans: You can not make object but you can implement interface and abstract class to use the property.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans: Access Specifier defines who can have access to variables and classes.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans: Object Oriented Programming: provides a set of rules for creating and managing objects.
     Encapsulation: Data hiding. Can be used for creating template with private variables that can be accessed using setter/getter method
     Inheritance: allows the structure and methods in one class to be passed down to child classes using extends.
     Polymorphism: contains data overloading and data overriding.
     Abstraction: process of hiding implementation details. by using interface and abstract classes user can access the functionality but not the details.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans: A package in Java is used to group related classes. java.lang package is imported by default

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans: API: Application Programming Interface. It is a list of all classes that are part of a jdk.
     java.sql java.xml

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans: java does not support multiple inheritance. one child class can only have one parent but one parent can have multiple child classes

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans: method overloading allows a class to use multiple method with the same name but different parameters

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans: exceptions gives us information about an error and what type of error it is
     we can handle it by using try-catch or throw the exception

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans: static is used to share the same variable or method of a class without having to create object.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans: final is keyword. when used with a variable it means that the value never change, it is a constant.
     A final method can not be overridden or hidden by subclasses.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans: final: a keyword that can be used with methods and variables.
     finally: used with a try code block where the code always executes, even if there's exception
     finalize: is a method that is use just before object is destroyed and can be called just before creating an object.

What is a constructor ?
Ans: constructor is a method used to initialize object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans: yes. as long as they have different parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans: default constructor. It does not need to be declared, it can be called during object creation.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans: this keyword refers to the curret object in a method or constructor

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans: super keyword refers to the parent class object. It can be used
     to refer parent class instance variable
     to invoke parent class method
     to invoke parent class constructor

What is JVM stand for ?
Ans: Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Ans: No. different JVM is used for different operating system.

What version of java are you using?
Ans: 11.0.8

What is JAR stand for ?
Ans: Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans: JDK is used to make java applications
     JVM is an engine that provides runtime environment to drive the Java Code.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans: JVM is the platform whereas JRE is software that is designed to run other software inside JVM

What is compile time and run time?
Ans: Compile time is is when the program is compiles
     Runtime is when it runs or executes

What is heap?
Ans: Heap is a memory space created by JVM that allocate memory to objects and JRE classes.

How java manage it's memory?
Ans: java manages memory using garbage collector

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans: String is a datatype that declares a variable and value contains sequense of characters. It is immutable
     StringBuffer mutable, thread-safe and synchronized
     StringBuilder mutable, not thread-safe and non synchronized

What is Singleton class?
Ans: Singleton restricts creating of multiple object for a class and provides global access to get the instance of the class

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans: Serialization is a process of converting the state of an object into byte stream. Deserialization does the opposite.

when to use transient variable in java?
Ans: transient is used to avoid serialization. If any object of a data structure is defined as a transient, it will not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans: in while loop condition is evaluated first and then stmt inside the loop body is executed
     in do while loop stmt inside do-while is executed first and then the condition is evaluated.

What is Enum?
Ans: special class that is set of constants (final).

What is Iterator?
Ans: Iterator is used for looping various collection classes such as HashMap, ArrayList etc.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans: Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans: for security, synchronization and correct class loading

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans: if we want to invoke multiple constructors by initializing only one instance it is called constructor chaining

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans: serial uses only one garbage collector thread while parallel uses multiple threads

What is JIT stands for?
Ans: Just In Time compilation

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans: Java Heap space: is a memory size jvm initially sets up for java to use
     Garbage Collection: is the process of looking at heap space,
     identifying which objects are in use and which are not, and deleting the unused objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans: no. the decision is taken by JVM based on the available memory in the heap

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans: heap space is created by JVM when the it starts it is memory allocated by JVM
     stack memory is temporary memory where variable values are stored when their methods are invoked.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans: it is an api that gives us information about the class' objects and methods
     we can use getClass(), getConstructor(), getMethods() to get information about class, constructors and methods

what is multithreading in java?
Ans: A multi-threaded program contains two or more parts that can run concurrently. Each part handles different tasks

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans: Only one thread can execute at a time. synchronization is used to prevent thread interference and consistency problem.

What is Framework?
Ans: pre-written codes used by devs to develop java applications or web applications

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans: Selenium, Cucumber, Robot etc

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans: jUnit can not run parallel texts, testNG can. Junit is open source, Testng is an upgraded option for running tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?

what is dependency injection in java?
Ans: it is the concept of object getting other required objects from outside.ie. mavn repository

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans: in static binding, the object is known at compile time.
     in dynamic binding, the type of object is determined at runtime.
